#author Dimitri Fontaine
#title Cluster Hackers Meeting
#date 20110517

* Status update

** Slony-I

Working on version 2.1 (bug fixes).  2.0 will get a backport of performance
(high volume transactions).

Wait for commands get into slonic so that users don't have to do it by hand.

Transactions for cluster commands are now defined in javascript.  This new
framework is on github (Provisionning, etc).

** pgPool II

Works with Streaming Replication.  Version 3.1 getting to beta, many
improvements by dalibo.  Control interface in SQL (pgAdmin).

Future plans: query cache, no SPOF architecture, pseudo multi-master.

** GridSQL / Stado

Mason Sharp is no more at EDB.  EDB is out of GridSQL.

Parallel distributed PostGIS.  High Availability is on the roadmap.

** PostgresXC

Working on 1.0.  Version 0.9.4 is out, and BSD licenced.  SQL support is not
finished. 0.9.5 will have session parameters, *data distribution extensions*.
Adding cluster management tools written in ruby.

1.0 is scheduled for april 2012 and based on 9.1.

** Bucardo

Version 5 alpha is out (last week).  N masters (N>2).  Uses LISTEN/NOTIFY
internally rather than its own (bloated) tables.

** Skytools

Soon to release 3.0, but it's already in production at Skype.  Cascaded
replication/queueing.  Londiste handlers (plugins like partitioning).
Planned handler for handling multi-master (targeting failover).

** Binary replication

Sync Rep in 9.1 (teamwork).  The result is quite simple (and robust) in the
code and the setup.  Result of 7 years of work.  Transaction Controlled is
industry first.

repmgr next version has fully automated failover with witness nodes etc.

Binary based replication looks about over, next steps would be to better
integrate with existing external systems.

** Mammoth replicator

It's dead.

Development has stoped.  One reason is 9.0 with integrated replication.

